Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!sdd.hp.com!network.ucsd.edu!ucsbcsl!mcl!timmbake
From: timmbake@mcl.ucsb.edu (Bake Timmons)
Newsgroups: alt.atheism
Subject: Re: Amusing atheists and anarchists
Message-ID: <timmbake.735294667@mcl>
Date: 20 Apr 93 08:31:07 GMT
Sender: news@ucsbcsl.ucsb.edu
Lines: 117

My turn
I went back and reread your post.  All you did is attack atheism, and
say that agnosticism wasn't as funny as atheism.  Nowhere does that
imply that you are agnostic, or weak atheist.  As most people who post
such inflammatory remarks are theists, it was a reasonable assumption.

Sorry, you're right.  I did not clearly state it.

Rule *2:  Condescending to the population at large (i.e., theists) will not
win many people to your faith anytime soon.  It only ruins your credibility.

The most common form of condescending is the rational versus irrational
attitude.  Once one has accepted the _assumption_ that there is no god(s),
and then consider other faiths to be irrational simply because their
assumption(s) contradict your assumption, then I would say there's a
lack of consistency here.

Now I know you'll get on me about faith.  If the _positive_ belief that God
does not exist were a closed, logical argument, why do so many rational
people have problems with that "logic"?

But you, probably like me, seem to be a soft atheist.  Sorry for the flamage.

The line about atheists haveing something up their sleeves is what seemed
to imply that.  Sorry, been reading too much on the CLIPPER project lately,
and the paranoia over there may have seeped in some.

;)  What is the CLIPPER project BTW?

Rule #4:  Don't mix apples with oranges.  How can you say that the
extermination by the Mongols was worse than Stalin?  Khan conquered >people
unsympathetic to his cause.  That was atrocious.  But Stalin killed >millions of
his own people who loved and worshipped _him_ and his atheist state!!  >>How can
anyone be worse than that?

Many rulers have done similar things in the past, only Stalin did it
when there was plenty of documentation to afix the blame on him.  The
evidence is that some of the early European rulers ruled with an iron
fist much like Stalin's.  You threw in numbers, and I am sick of hearing
about Stalin as an example because the example doesn't apply.  You
managed to get me angry with your post because it appeared to attack
all forms of atheism.

First, all the pink crows/unicorns/elves arguments in the world will not
sway most people, for they simply do not accept the analogy.  Why?

One of the big reasons is that many, many people want something
beyond this life.  You can pretend that they don't want this, but I for
one can accept it and even want it myself sometimes.

And there is nothing unique in this example of why people want a God.
Can love as a truth be proven, logically?

themselves, namely, a god or gods.  So in principle it's hard to see how
theists are necessarily arrogant.

Makes no sense to me.  They seem arrogant to make such a claim to me.
But my previous refutation still stands, and I believe there may be
another one on the net.

John the Baptist boasted of Jesus to many people.  I find it hard to see
how that behavior is arrogant at all.  Many Christians I know also boast
in this way, but I still do not necessarily see it as arrogance.  Of course,
I do know arrogant Christians, doctors, and teachers as well.  Technically,
you might consider the person who originally made a given claim to be arrogant,
Jesus, for instance.

I believe I answered that.  I apologize for the (as you stated) incorrect
assumption on your theism, but I saw nothing to indicate that you
were an agnostic, only that you were just another newbie Christian
on the net trying to get some cheap shots in.